[ominous music playing]
[narrator]
And a gruesome discovery.
[man speaking]
[Gregory] I started thinking
the cartel, a serial killer,
all these horrific
possibilities.
[narrator] Police pursue
a cold-blooded killer.
[Thomas] He's obviously
going somewhere
and he doesn't plan
on returning.
[Mark] He was on the run
and then we're gonna need
a lot more resources
[narrator] CCTV holds the key.
What is he doing?
[Gregory] The surveillance
video was the smoking gun.
[Corey] He was just
acting very strangely.
[narrator]
To solving a shocking crime.
[Gregory]
And it was just brutal.
[upbeat music playing]
[woman speaking]
[man speaking]
[ominous music playing]
I got the call
about 7:15 in the morning
from my sergeant
that we had a possible
dead child found in a suitcase
in a trash bin
behind an apartment complex.
Seale it off, I'll check it out.
[Gregory]
I looked into the trash bin
and reached down inside.
So, I opened the lid
and I looked inside
and I saw that
it was not a child.
[Corey] The body
appeared to be in a...
in a fetal position.
He was lying on its left side,
and was completely naked.
[ominous music playing]
[Gregory] I could tell
that it was a female,
White, possibly Hispanic,
mid to late 20s
with dark hair
that appeared to be damp.
Due to the lack of decomposition
in the victim's body, we knew
it had not been dead
all that long.
[ominous music playing]
The body did show signs
of a severe struggle.
She was nude
so there was no clothing
that you could
possibly use to track.
[Gregory] And I could tell
that her face was swollen.
She had been beaten pretty bad.
And I'm looking at here hand
and I'm thinking
there's something wrong
with her fingernails.
And as I looked closer
I could tell
those were bones.
And I quickly realized
after at that point,
all the fingertips
had been cut off at the joint,
the thumb,
the fingers on both hands.
All of a sudden my thought
process changed to,
this is a crime
of a whole new level.
And I also realized
at that moment,
she's not gonna have any teeth.
[Thomas] Removing the teeth
and the fingers
is a way of attempting
to keep that identification
from happening quickly,
if not, ever.
The killer is definitely
wanting to cover their tracks.
We live in Southern California,
so I started thinking
the cartel.
I started thinking
a serial killer.
I started thinking all these
horrific possibilities
to mutilate this young female
in this manner.
I mean, it was just brutal.
[Thomas] We really
didn't know where to start.
We had a body
in a bag in a dumpster
in Buena Park, California,
but we did not know
where this homicide occurred,
and we did not know
how she got there.
[narrator]
Investigators put out a call
for missing persons reports.
[Corey] Being able to
identify her quickly
and go back
and walk in her shoes
to try to figure
who she had been around,
who the suspect might be
was very, very important to us.
But there was no
missing person reports
that we received with a
similar description at time.
[Gregory] After we processed
the body at the scene,
the coroner took the body
so that they could do
an autopsy.
The coroner informed me
that the victim
died from manual strangulation,
which is someone
taking their hands
and choking them to death.
They also advised that
the removal of the fingers
had taken place after death.
[Thomas] The coroner found
that the body had
had breast implants.
The breast implants
are all serialized.
[ominous music playing]
[narrator] The serial numbers
reveal a name.
[Gregory] They had identified
the victim
as Jasmine Fiore.
[Thomas] They now had a name,
date of birth, and address,
all of those things,
they're able to
start working on.
[Gregory] From there,
we ran her in our system
and we saw that she had
a current address
in the Fairfax District
in Los Angeles
and that she was
28 years of age.
[Corey] Once we identified
the victim,
we started interviewing people,
her friends, her family.
[dramatic music playing]
[Andrea] When I heard
about how she was murdered,
I was just numb
but I was really pissed,
just so mad that...
To take a...
Just a beautiful soul
from this earth,
just pissed.
I'm still mad, actually.
And actually,
I'm like tearing up now
but, um...
I was just numb, shocked.
She had an infectious smile,
bubbly but smart.
Some people said, "Oh,
she's probably
some dingy blonde."
No, she's pretty smart,
level-headed.
And when she walked in,
everybody recognized her.
Yeah, everybody noticed her,
like all eyes were on her.
She was, you know,
a beautiful vibrant young lady.
[narrator] Investigators focused
on building a timeline
of Jasmine's last movements.
[Gregory] We then ran her
in the system
to see if she had any warrants,
any restraining orders,
and now a missing persons report
popped up on her
that was filed Saturday night
by her husband Ryan Jenkins.
[narrator] Ryan had reported
his wife missing
to the LA County
Sheriff's Department
on August 15th, just hours
after her body was found.
[Corey] He had told the deputy
that took the report
that she went
to get her nails done
and went to run some errands,
and he hadn't heard
from her since.
[narrator] Detective Pelton
contacts the officer
who spoke with Ryan.
She told me that she made
a call to Ryan Jenkins,
who told her that he was
in route to Canada
because he had a visa issue
that he had to take care of.
"And she said, "Well, you
reported your wife missing,
aren't you concerned?"
And he said,
"Well, I'm concerned
but she does this all the time
and I have to take care
of my visa."
[dramatic music playing]
[narrator] Investigators dig
into the couple's background.
[Gregory] That's when we
started learning
Jasmine was a model
and Brian Jenkins was
some type of a reality star.
[dramatic music playing]
[Mark] Ryan Jenkins had traveled
to Las Vegas, Nevada
from his home country Canada
when he met a casting agent
for a VH1 reality show
called Megan
Wants a Millionaire.
[narrator] Ryan stays in Vegas
to take part in the show.
That's where he meets Jasmine.
[Mark]
There were both good-looking.
Jasmine was literally beautiful.
Ryan and Jasmine were married
in a shotgun wedding
two days after they had met.
[Gregory] Ryan Jenkins
being the victim's husband
and also the reporting party
who reported her missing
is obviously a key element
to our investigation.
But Ryan Jenkins spoke with LAPD
on Monday morning.
And so, we tried to call him
but he wasn't answering
his phone.
[narrator] A conversation
with one of Jasmine's friends
throws out the lead.
[woman] Yeah, Ryan took her
to a fancy hotel in San Diego.
[narrator]
This was just two days
before the discovery
of Jasmine's body.
[Gregory]
Ryan and Jasmine had gone
to San Diego to stay in a hotel
so that Ryan could participate
in a "cause,"
a celebrity poker game.
[Mark] They stayed at the fancy,
beautiful,
famous L'Auberge Del Mar
in Del Mar, California.
[Gregory]
So, we went to San Diego
to investigate the hotel,
to see if we could collect
any more evidence there.
[dramatic music playing]
[Thomas] When
the investigators arrived
- at the hotel...
- Excuse me.
...first thing
they're asking about
is surveillance cameras.
[dramatic music playing]
Can I take a look?
[Gregory] We learned
that they did have
surveillance cameras
and they have them
all throughout the hotel.
[narrator] They queue up
the footage from August 13th.
[dramatic music playing]
[man] Hold it.
Stop it there.
[Gregory]
About 3:28 they arrived
and they arrived
in Jasmine's Mercedes.
So, on her driver's license,
she had blonde hair,
but the deceased had dark hair.
Replay that.
[Gregory] We're able to see
both Jasmine and Ryan
get out of the vehicle
and saw the luggage cart
was brought out to them
and the employees
put their luggage
on the luggage cart
to bring it inside.
[Thomas] We now know
they were here together,
it establishes
their presence at the hotel.
But where does it go from here?
Let's see the next angle.
[dramatic music playing]
[Thomas] That's Jasmine and Ryan
in the lobby of the hotel.
I think they were looking
for the front desk.
Move on, try the next camera.
Zoom in.
[dramatic music playing]
[Thomas] That's the front
desk of the hotel.
Ryan and Jasmine
kinda walked past it.
[dramatic music playing]
[Thomas] Then,
Ryan walks back to the desk
and engages the hotel
staff person for his room.
[dramatic music playing]
They check him in,
he signed something.
He gets the keys
and then he walks away.
[Gregory] Try the next camera.
[dramatic music playing]
[Gregory] You see them
start to get in an elevator.
Then you see them get out
of the elevator real fast,
and it looks like they're asking
where their room is.
So, the elevator
was obviously a mistake.
Move on, try the next camera.
[dramatic music playing]
[Gregory] The employee
takes them over
to where
they'll find their room,
which is on the bottom floor.
And that's it,
they're in the room.
[Gregory] According
to the surveillance footage
that we're watching,
they both get to the room
and everything just seems fine.
[narrator]
Detectives keep watching.
[Corey]
It's quite labor-intensive.
You have to sit there
and watch hours and hours
and hours of video.
[man] That's them.
Wind it back, play it again.
[Gregory] About two
and a half hours later,
they reappear from the room
both dressed very nicely.
Pause it.
Let's get a good look.
[Gregory] He's in jacket,
she's in a nice dress
and appeared to be going out
for a nice evening on the town.
[Corey] These are
two young people that
are at the prime of their life,
both in their late 20s, 30s.
You know, it's sad
to think that that was
probably the last night
of her life.
[tense music playing]
[narrator] Detectives
still don't know
where Jasmine was murdered,
so they conduct a search
of her hotel room for any clues.
[Gregory]
We have our forensic unit
respond out
and they processed the bathroom,
the sink, the shower.
They processed the bedding.
[Thomas] The investigators
need to see
if there is any evidence
of a struggle,
is there any blood evidence,
any distraction.
What do you got?
We all had hoped that
we'd find more in there,
but the room had been cleaned.
The staff that was interviewed
that cleaned the room
didn't indicate that
they observed anything
out of the ordinary.
Call me if you get anything.
[narrator] On their first
evening in town,
Ryan and Jasmine attended
a charity poker event.
[Gregory] We went to where
the poker tournament
was being held which was a hotel
about a 10-minute drive
from the hotel
where they're staying at.
We did speak with people
who remembered
Ryan and Jasmine.
The witnesses recalled
Jasmine very clearly
coming in her Mercedes
with Ryan
to the poker tournament.
Another thing
that we learned is that
the management arranged
for a limo
to take them
to the gaslight district
in San Diego,
which is full of like
bars and clubs and stuff.
They arrived back around 2:30
and they get back
into the Mercedes
and they leave.
But there was no video
footage from that hotel.
[tense music playing]
[narrator] In the hunt
for potential suspects,
detectives discovered
Jasmine has been married before
to a man named Michael Cardosi.
[Gregory] We learned
that Michael Cardosi
is actually her ex-husband
and that he recently
got out of prison.
[Thomas] Michael Cardosi
was on parole
at the time of this incident.
He may have been involved
in her disappearance.
[tense music playing]
[narrator]
Since Jasmine's death,
Cardosi has violated his parole
and he's back in jail.
[man] Can you tell me,
when did you last hear
from your ex-wife?
[Gregory] We learned that
just before Jasmine
left on Thursday,
she'd actually gone down
to the San Diego area
with her mother
and she left her mother
at the hotel
and she went and saw Michael.
She'd known Michael since
she was a very young girl.
They got married young.
They ended up divorcing
when he went away to prison.
[narrator] Cardosi admits
to meeting Jasmine,
but claims to know nothing
about her murder.
[mellow music playing]
[narrator] Jasmine Fiore's
friends and family
gathered for a private memorial.
[Andrea]
Everyone mourning for her.
Um, I think we're all
just still in disbelief
and, um,
it's just really hard
to take in, you know.
Everybody having to go,
especially her family,
having to go through
this terrible,
um, tragedy.
She had too many people
that loved her.
She had people
that cared about her,
that she could fall back on.
Until this day, like right now,
I still can't believe it.
[tense music playing]
[narrator]
Investigators follow up on
Michael Cardosi's alibi.
[Thomas] Michael Cardosi
wore a GPS bracelet.
Uh, that bracelet
shows where you are
at all time as part
of his conditions of parole.
[Gregory] We were able
to eliminate Michael
as a suspect
checking his alibis,
talking to his parole officer.
Uh, we were comfortable
that he was not involved.
[Corey] All indications were
from Jasmine's family,
her mother that Jasmine
got along really well with him.
Uh, there was no
history of violence.
Them not being married
had nothing to do
with abuse
or anything like that.
[Gregory]
Plus we have no indication
that he ever went to the hotel.
[tense music playing]
[narrator]
Detectives continue to scour
the surveillance footage
from the hotel.
[Mark] There were a lot
of questions to be answered
and many of those answers
were starting to germinate
in that
original security footage
at L'Auberge Del Mar.
[man] Okay.
There's no night footage
from the lobby.
Let's focus on the camera
outside the room.
[Corey] It may lead us
to additional evidence
and to our additional witnesses.
It's all about putting
that case together
to determine
what happened and when.
[theme music playing]
[tense music playing]
[man] Keep watching. There's
gotta be something here.
Play it back.
[Gregory]
Two hours later after leaving
the other hotel,
we see Ryan running
through the hallway to his room.
That's at 4:38.
[man] Freeze it there.
Can I see that
against earlier footage?
[Gregory] We're curious.
We only see Ryan Jenkins.
[man] Yes, definitely him,
black suit, same built.
[Gregory] I'm having trouble
speculating what he's doing
and where Jasmine is
at this point in time.
Keep going.
Some other customer.
That's him.
Play it back.
[Gregory]
We see Ryan placed an item
on top of a cabinet
that's in the hallway.
[Thomas]
What is Ryan trying to hide?
What is this object
he's trying to get rid of?
[man] Move on.
[man] Play it back.
[Gregory] You then see him
take an ice bucket
which he came out with as well.
And he goes and gets ice
and then
he goes back to the room.
What's going on here
especially at almost 5:00 AM
in the morning?
[Corey] Just his whole
behavior was one of somebody
that was just acting,
uh, very strangely.
Thanks.
[narrator] New data
from Jasmine's cell phone
shows she text a number
more than once that evening.
[Corey] She had a previous
boyfriend of two years.
His name was Robert Hasman.
He lived in Las Vegas.
Um, people describe him
as being a wealthy guy.
[Thomas] That series of text
was a discussion
about getting together
and getting back together
in a more permanent way.
[Gregory]
Jasmine had text Robert
from the poker party saying
something to the effect of
"I'm done with this,
get in your plane
and come pick me up."
[Thomas] Mr. Hasman was critical
to talk to an interview
to find out
what was actually going on
between him and Jasmine.
[Robert] Oh, hi.
You phoned about Jasmine?
Yeah, that's right.
Thanks for seeing us.
Do you mind if I, uh, come in?
Yeah. Sure, of course.
Come in.
[Gregory]
He gave us an interview,
explained some of the back story
between him and Jasmine
and their love story.
[Corey] They were dating up
to just about the point
that, uh, Jasmine and Ryan,
uh, got married.
[narrator] Robert confirms
that he and Jasmine
had stayed in contact.
[Gregory] He was very distraught
over what had happened.
Obviously,
he cared about Jasmine
a great deal.
[man] When did you last hear
from her?
The night they went
to play poker.
[Corey] Robert was in Las Vegas
and, uh, Jasmine
had indicated to him
that she would go
to Burbank Airport
and maybe he could
get his private jet
to come and pick her up
and fly her to Las Vegas.
[narrator] Robert claims
that was the last
he heard from Jasmine.
[Gregory] We spoke to him,
solid alibis.
Robert wasn't even
in California.
He was in Nevada at the time.
Okay.
I think we're done.
[Corey] We didn't think
that he was involved
whatsoever
in the murder of Jasmine.
[Thomas]
The investigators requested
the recovery of evidence
from the wardrobe
covered in the hallway.
At the time, we didn't even know
what the object was.
Was it the murder weapon,
was it used in the homicide?
Is it something related
to Jasmine or Ryan
that could lead
to Ryan's location?
[Gregory] So we look on top
of the [indistinct]
And it's a phone receiver.
So in my mind I'm thinking,
why would anyone take
the phone receiver
from the hotel phone,
unplug it from the phone
and set it outside,
and then go get ice?
[Thomas] It was taken
to the forensic lab
and examined
for any fingerprints,
any evidence
that it may have been used
in the crime.
[narrator] Investigators
take another look
at Jasmine and Ryan's room.
[Thomas] At the back
of the room was a sliding door
that led to a private patio
that backed up
to the parking lot
of the hotel.
[Corey] You were able to go
outside of the room
onto a patio area with a small,
like a two-foot high wall
around it.
One could step over the wall
to get into the outside
parking lot.
[Gregory] On the back patio,
they found a spot of blood
with a long hair in it.
And after processing
the blood spot and the hair,
DNA evidence showed
that did belong
to Jasmine Fiore.
[theme music playing]
[Gregory] Based on the evidence,
we know that her blood and hair
is found in the back patio area.
But from the video evidence,
we don't see Jasmine, we don't
know where Jasmine is.
[man] Okay, scroll on.
See if he comes back out.
Gotta be something here.
Pause it there.
Is that their stuff?
Wind it back, slow it down,
and zoom in.
So the next time we see
Ryan Jenkins is at 6:24.
He appeared
to have both his hands full
of clothing and toiletries,
that type of thing,
and he was in a hurry.
[tense music playing]
[Gregory] We then see him return
and he's empty-handed
and he goes back into the room.
What is he doing?
[Gregory] We then see him
leave the room again at 6:51.
Again, we haven't seen Jasmine
at all in this time.
[man] There he is.
Changed his clothes.
So after Ryan leaves,
he's gone for a couple hours
and he doesn't return back
to the hotel room
until 9:09 in the morning.
And then shortly after that
at 9:20,
we see him leave the room again.
[suspenseful music playing]
[narrator] It's the last time
Ryan appears on the CCTV.
No bag, nothing.
No sign of Jasmine.
Can you show me their
arrival again?
[tense music playing]
[Thomas]
When they first arrived,
there was a gray suitcase
that is seen on camera
being placed on the cart.
[tense music playing]
[man] Pause there.
[Gregory] One of the first
things I realized
is one of the bags
is identical to the bag
we found Jasmine in.
[Thomas] The gray suitcase
was not seen leaving the room
on any of the video
surveillance.
[Gregory] Ryan Jenkins
never brings any luggage
out from the hotel room
and there was no luggage
found inside the hotel room,
so he had to have taken it out
the back door
to the parking lot.
[Thomas]
Ryan was the last person
that we could identify
with Jasmine
during this time period.
We needed to talk to him
and find him.
[narrator]
To help track him down,
investigators turn
to Jasmine's friends.
[Thomas] She had some
very close friends,
all who were interviewed
for background,
last time they
had seen her and Ryan,
what the situation was.
There was some concern that,
you know, she and Ryan
weren't getting along
because they'd only been
married a short time
that it just wasn't working out.
[woman] We have so much
going on right now.
She wouldn't just leave
me to deal with it all.
[Gregory] After Ryan
and Jasmine were married,
Ryan got caught
cheating on Jasmine
that caused a rift
in the relationship.
I learned that it was
a turbulent relationship.
Ryan had actually been arrested
in Las Vegas
for domestic violence.
Apparently, he had...
punched Jasmine in the arm
and made her fall in the pool.
The police were called
and he was arrested for that.
[tense music playing]
[narrator] Ryan Jenkins
is now the prime suspect.
[Thomas] You had multiple
locations
that we were...
- looking for Ryan.
- [siren blaring]
[Thomas]
You had Southern California,
his apartment, LA area,
Las Vegas, Nevada.
He'd already made the statement
that he needed
to go back to Canada
to take care of some
immigration issues.
So we were well-aware
that Canada
was a possibility.
You pretty much have
a national
and international manhunt
for Ryan Jenkins.
It's now on the hunt
for a suspected killer
which has gone international.
Reality TV show contested
Ryan Jenkins is accused
of killing his ex-wife
in California and now believed
to have fled the country
into Canada.
[tense music playing]
[narrator]
Investigators gained access
to Ryan's apartment.
[door opens]
Thanks for meeting us.
[door closes]
[Thomas] Was there any evidence
of Jasmine's presence there?
Was her homicide
committed there?
[tense music playing]
[Gregory] What we find is...
Ryan Jenkins has taken
all of his belongings
and left the apartment.
[narrator] Detectives
searched the apartment's
underground parking lot.
[tense music playing]
Jasmine's vehicle was not there
nor was Ryan's.
[narrator] Investigators
put out APBs
on both vehicles.
[Gregory] At Ryan's
and Jasmine's apartment,
they also had video cameras.
[narrator] They queue up
the footage from Friday,
August 14th,
a few hours after Ryan
was last seen on CCTV
leaving the hotel.
[suspenseful music playing]
[narrator] Hours tick by
with no sign of Ryan or Jasmine.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Gregory] Ryan Jenkins walks
into the parking structure
on Friday afternoon,
no vehicle.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Thomas] He's very casual.
He seems to be calm walking back
into the apartment complex.
[Gregory] And going back
to Ryan Jenkins'
missing persons report,
he says that his wife Jasmine
dropped him off and he walked in
and she drove off
to get her nails done,
but we have no video evidence
of this.
Switch angles.
[tense music playing]
[Gregory] He then takes
an elevator upstairs.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Gregory] Short time later,
he returns back downstairs
with a suitcase.
[Thomas] He's obviously
going somewhere
and he doesn't plan
on returning.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Thomas] He loads the suitcase
into his vehicle,
gets into his vehicle,
and leaves.
It's not someone
that seems to be concerned
with the fact that his wife
is missing.
[Gregory] At this point in time,
I'm thinking Ryan Jenkins
is on the run.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Gregory]
During our investigation,
we learned that Ryan
had a storage unit
in Las Vegas
and he kept his boat there.
[siren wailing]
[Gregory] So we go to Las Vegas
to go to the storage unit,
and there we find
the boat is gone.
[Mark] He was on the run
and they were gonna need
a lot more resources
to find this guy.
They had to find Ryan Jenkins
and they had to find them fast.
[tense music playing]
[theme music playing]
[suspenseful music playing]
[Thomas] Ryan's SUV
with the boat trailer
attached to it
was discovered at a boat ramp
in Blaine, Washington.
[suspenseful music playing]
[Thomas] Ryan Jenkins
was not at the vehicle
and the boat was missing.
[tense music playing]
[narrator] The City of Blaine
sits directly
on the Canadian border.
[Thomas] The moment
the vehicle was found,
everything turned to the focus
of him being in Canada.
[man] It's been more than a week
since there's been
a confirmed sign
of Ryan Jenkins,
but here in Calgary,
the public continues
to call in tips.
[tense music playing]
[Thomas]
The Canadian authorities
were contacted
by the Thunderbird Hotel manager
in Hope, British Columbia.
The hotel manager,
uh, explained to them
that a man had arrived
approximately two days
prior to that.
After he did not check out,
the manager went into the room.
And...
Ryan was discovered
hanging by his belt
in the closet.
[tense music playing]
[narrator] Canadian forensics
process the scene.
[Thomas]
They took photographs of him,
sent them to us.
The fingerprints that they had
were compared to fingerprints
in the United States
and it confirmed
that it was Ryan Jenkins.
The international manhunt
for a reality TV star
suspected of murdering
his model ex-wife
has ended with the suspect
found dead.
[camera clicks]
[Gregory] After Ryan Jenkins
committed suicide,
we learned that
there was a suicide note
on his computer.
His suicide note was,
basically, "Those of you
reading this"
have heard...
on the news
what a monster I am...
but the true monster
was Jasmine.
I loved her with all my heart.
"I'd do anything for her."
He never came out and said,
"Oh, gee,"
you know, "I killed her.
I'm sorry for it."
He apologized to people
but he didn't apologize
for the murder.
[narrator]
Without a full confession,
detectives still need
conclusive evidence
to close the case.
[suspenseful music playing]
[narrator]
Investigators receive a call
about Jasmine's missing car.
[Thomas] Her vehicle was found
about a mile from her apartment
in the parking lot,
basically, been sitting there
a couple days.
The Orange County forensics team
that was working with
Buena Park Police Department
could start the processing
of that vehicle
for any evidence.
[Gregory] That vehicle
is full of blood.
We found blood
on the door panels,
the carpeting,
the door seals.
The car was a crime scene.
In fact, the suitcase
had been in the back seat,
not in the trunk,
and all the blood had pooled
into that seat.
[narrator] Detectives can now
piece together
what they believe
actually happened.
[Thomas] The theory is that
at some point Ryan discovered
that Jasmine was...
messaging with Robert.
[Gregory] He probably got
a hold of Jasmine's phone
and goes ballistic.
He literally beats her
in the vehicle.
That's our crime scene.
He got her out of the vehicle
and helped her
into the patio area
but found out he couldn't
[indistinct]
the rear doors.
So he has to run around,
let himself in,
open the doors,
and brings her in.
We know that her blood
and hair is found
in the back patio area.
Shortly thereafter,
we see him come out
and, of course,
he places the phone receiver
up on top of the [indistinct]
and goes and gets ice
and comes back.
That tells me she's still
alive at that time.
Why would you do that
unless you didn't want someone
inside the room
to make a phone call?
[Thomas] The ice bucket,
is he mixing drinks
or is he trying
to reduce swelling on an injury?
[Gregory] I believe
part of the arguing was
he's pleading with her,
"I'm so sorry, baby."
I'll never touch you again.
Please forgive me.
"Don't call the cops."
And she's just like,
"Oh, no, screw you.
I'm calling the cops."
It wasn't a planned event.
He snaps and he strangles
her to death.
[Jasmine gasping]
We also know that
we see him leave
carrying all of his clothing.
This is clothing
that came from that bag.
He took all the clothes
out of his bag
to put her in that bag.
[Thomas] I believe that
he used the back entrance
of the room
through the patio
to the car park
to move the suitcase
with Jasmine in it.
[narrator]
Ryan now leaves the hotel
for two hours.
[Gregory] I think
it's quite possible
he was checking the vehicle
for a tool or going to buy
some type of a tool
to dismember Jasmine with.
He comes back,
cuts off her fingers,
pulls out her teeth,
breaks out her teeth.
He leaves San Diego.
At this point in time,
he has to have Jasmine
in the suitcase
in the back seat
of the Mercedes.
He gets off and [indistinct]
this detour
and he's probably thinking,
"I've had this dead body
in my car for hours now.
I need to get rid of it."
[Thomas] He found a location
behind an apartment place.
He dumps Jasmine
in the dumpster
and then he drives back
to Los Angeles.
[ominous music playing]
[tense music playing]
[Gregory] The surveillance video
was the smoking gun.
It told us so much.
It gave us the time frame,
the behavior,
never seeing Jasmine again.
Without that video,
we still would've been
chasing Ryan Jenkins.
[narrator] Ryan Jenkins suicide
spares Jasmine's family
and friends
the trauma of a trial.
[Andrea] So he killed himself
out of his own pity
and because he couldn't face
the consequences,
he couldn't face what he did.
He would've went to, uh, prison
for the rest of his life.
He knew he couldn't handle that.
[Thomas] The victim's family
is seeking closure, you know.
They've lost a daughter,
a friend, you know, a sister.
They've lost somebody
that they care about deeply
and they wanna know why.
[melancholy music playing]
[Thomas] When something
like this ends the way
this case did,
you have these unknowns
that are out there forever,
but at the same time,
I think there was relief
that he was no longer running.
[dramatic music playing]
[Gregory] Jasmine was very
loved by her family.
She's the victim
because she was murdered,
but her family
is the victim as well.
[Andrea] She fell in love
with a narcissistic
con artist.
Jasmine was just blinded
by his hustle.
Sometimes you just can't,
you know, see.
You know, they say love is blind
and, uh, you know, a lot
of smart, intelligent women
fall in love with men
that are...
bad for them.
[soft music playing]
[Andrea] I would like Jasmine
to be remembered
as a...
multi-talented,
kind-hearted,
intelligent businesswoman
that loved the wrong person.
But she will always
be remembered
as, uh...
the beautiful butterfly
that, uh, entertained us all.
And we'll never forget
that smile.
[melancholy music playing]